# MCS-IFT6113-Final-Project-DeepSDF

Final project on DeepSDF for the course IFT6113 - Modélisation géométrique et analyse de formes.

Author: Sylvain Laporte  
Matricule: C3874

Due date:
Presentation date: December 8th, 2020, 09h30

## About this project

This project implements the paper "DeepSDF: Learning Continuous Signed Distance Functions for Shape Representation", arXiv:1901.05103 [cs.CV].

Instructions for running the programs are provided in...

## Content

This repository contains the following directories and files:

- `images/`: screenshots of results and bugs.
- `input/`: input meshes provided with homework indstructions.
- `output/`: anchors data files from problem 0 and HTML files generated by Meshplot.
- `hw3_report-viz.pdf` and `hw3_report-viz.ipynb`: our report as PDF and Jupyter notebook.
- `problem1_derivations.pdf`: the paper derivations, as required by problem 1.
- `select_anchors.py` and `select_anchors_by_range_visual.ipynb`: our tools for selecting anchor vertices, as required by problem 0.
- `biharmonic_deformations.py`: our implementation of biharmonic deformation.
- `arap_deformations.py`: our implementation of ARAP deformation.
- `scripts.py`: the provided script file.

## Requirements

Meshplot is required to display the meshes.

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge meshplot
```

libigl python bindings are required:

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge igl
```

The following libraries where also used:

- `numpy`: for math operations.
- `pytorch`: for neural network building and training.
- `scipy.linalg`: for linear algebra operations.
- `scipy.sparse`: for sparse matrix objects.
- `scipy.sparse.linalg`: for sparse matrix operations.
- `json`: for handling of JSON files.

## Credits

The paper implemented for this project:

@InProceedings{Park_2019_CVPR,
author = {Park, Jeong Joon and Florence, Peter and Straub, Julian and Newcombe, Richard and Lovegrove, Steven},
title = {DeepSDF: Learning Continuous Signed Distance Functions for Shape Representation},
booktitle = {Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
month = {June},
year = {2019}
}

The PyTorch code structure used in this project is adapted from the tutorial "PyTorch: Zero to GANs" by Aakash N.S. for freeCodeCamp.org. The tutorial is available at <https://jovian.ai/aakashns/01-pytorch-basics>.

Meshplot - mesh viewer - <https://skoch9.github.io/meshplot/tutorial/#offline-plotting>
